# Classification methods
 
## Task
    1. Investigate how the size of the training sample and the amount of test data affects the accuracy of classification in the tic-tac-toe datasets (tic_tac_toe.txt ) and about the spam of e-mail messages (spam.csv) using a naive Bayesian classifier. Plot the accuracy dependencies on the training and test samples, depending on their ratio.
    2. Generate 100 points with two attributes X1 and X2 in accordance with the normal distribution so that one and the second part of the points (class -1 and class 1) have the parameters: mat. waiting for X1, mate. expectation X2, standard deviations for both variables corresponding to your variant (indicated in the table). Build diagrams illustrating the data. To build a Bayesian classifier and evaluate the classification quality using various methods (accuracy, error matrix, ROC and PR curves). Is the constructed classifier "good"?
    3. Build a classifier based on the k nearest neighbors method for the Glass training set (glass.csv). Look at the headers of attributes and classes. Before constructing the classifier, it is also necessary to remove the first Id number attribute, which does not carry any information load.
    a. Plot the dependence of the classification error on the number of nearest neighbors.
    b. Determine suitable distance metrics and investigate how the type of distance metric affects the accuracy of classification.
    c. Determine which type of glass the instance with the characteristics belongs to:RI =1.516 Na =11.7 Mg =1.01 Al =1.19 Si =72.59 K=0.43 Ca =11.44 Ba =0.02 Fe =0.1
    4. Build classifiers based on the support vector machine for data sets from files svmdataN.txt and svmdataNtest.txt , where N is the index of the task:
        a. Build an algorithm for the support vector machine with a linear kernel. Visualize the partitioning of the feature space into regions using the resulting model (visualization example). Print the number of support vectors obtained, as well as the classification error matrix on the training and test samples.
        b. Construct an algorithm for the support vector machine with a linear kernel. Achieve zero error first on the training sample, and then on the test sample by changing the penalty parameter. Choose the optimal value of this parameter and explain your choice. Is it always necessary to minimize the error on the training sample?
        c. Build an algorithm of the support vector machine method using various kernels (linear, polynomial powers 1-5, sigmoidal function, Gaussian). Visualize the partitioning of the feature space into regions using the resulting models. Draw conclusions.
        d. Construct an algorithm of the support vector machine method using various kernels (polynomial of degrees 1-5, sigmoidal function, Gaussian). Visualize the partitioning of the feature space into regions using the resulting models. Draw conclusions.
        e. Build an algorithm of the support vector machine method using various kernels (polynomial powers 1-5, sigmoidal function, Gaussian). By changing the value of the core parameter (gamma), demonstrate the effect of retraining, while visualizing the division of the feature space into regions.
    5. Build classifiers for various data based on decision trees:
        a. Download the Glass dataset from the glass.csv file.Build a classification tree for a model that predicts Type based on the remaining attributes. Visualize the resulting solution tree. Give an interpretation of the results obtained. Is the constructed tree redundant? Investigate the dependence of the classification accuracy on the splitting criterion, the maximum depth of the tree and other parameters at your discretion.
        b. Download the spam7 dataset from the spam7.csv file. Build what you think is the optimal classification tree for the yesno parameter. Explain how the selection of parameters was carried out. Visualize the resulting solution tree. Identify the most influential signs. Evaluate the quality of the classification.
    6. Download the dataset from the bank_scoring_train.csv file. This is a set of financial data that characterizes individuals. The target column is "SeriousDlqin2yrs", meaning whether the client's financial situation will worsen. Build a system for deciding whether or not to issue a loan to an individual. Make at least 2 variants of the system based on different classifiers. Choose a suitable metric for the quality of the system based on the specifics of the task and determine which system worked better on bank_scoring_test.csv.