# Linear regression

## Task
    1. Download the data from the file reglab1.txt . Build a regression on a dataset using models with various dependent variables. Choose the most suitable model.
    2. Implement the following algorithm to reduce the number of features used to build the regression: for each, select a subset of power attributes that minimizes the residual sum of RSS squares. Using the resulting algorithm, select the optimal subset of features for the data from the file reglab.txt . Explain your choice.
    3. Download the data from the file cygage.txt . Construct a regression expressing the dependence of the age of the studied sediments on the depth of occurrence using the weights of observations. Evaluate the quality of the constructed model.
    4. Upload the data from the longley.csv file. The data consists of 7 economic variables observed from 1947 to 1962 (n=16). Exclude the Population variable. Divide the data into test and training samples of equal sizes randomly. Build a linear regression based on the Employed attribute.Construct a ridge regression for the values . Calculate the error on the test and training samples for linear regression and ridge regression on these values of λ, build graphs. Explain the results obtained.
    5. Upload the data from the eustock.csv file. The data contains daily quotes at the close of the stock exchanges: Germany DAX (Ibis), Switzerland SMI, France CAC, and UK FTSE. Plot all the curves of price changes over time on one chart. Build a linear regression for each model individually and for all models together. Evaluate which of the exchanges has the greatest dynamics.
    6. Upload the data from the JohnsonJohnson.csv file. The data contains quarterly earnings of Johnson & Johnson from 1960 to 1980. Plot all profit change curves over time on one chart. Build a linear regression for each quarter individually and for all quarters together. Evaluate in which quarter the company has the highest and lowest profitability dynamics. Make a profit forecast for 2016 in all quarters and on average for the year.
    7. Upload the data from the cars.csv file. The data contains the dependence of the braking distance of the car (feet) on its speed (miles per hour). The data were obtained in 1920. Build a regression model and estimate the length of the braking distance at a speed of 40 miles per hour.
    8. Download the data from the file svmdata6.txt . Construct a regression algorithm of the support vector machine (sklearn.svm.SVR) with the parameter C = 1 using the "rbf" kernel. Plot the dependence of the root-mean-square error on the training sample on the value of the parameter ε. Please comment on the result
    9. Download the dataset from the nsw74psid1.csv file. Build a regression tree (sklearn.tree.DecisionTreeRegressor) for the re78 attribute. Build a linear regression model and SVM regression for this dataset. Compare the quality of the constructed models, choose the optimal model and explain your choice.
